Create 2024-08-12-Oskari_in_Container_in_Cloud.md (#200)
oskariorg/oskari-documentation-site: _content/blog/2025-08-12-Oskari_in_a_container_hosting_on_a_cloud.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Oskari in container and hosting on a cloud platform"
excerpt: "Interested in running Oskari as a Docker image or hosting in AWS? Look no further!"
date:   2025-08-12  10:00:00 +0300
categories: [news, container, cloud, developing]
tags:
  - blog

---

# Oskari in container and hosting on a cloud platform

> Some organizations have begun to use Oskari in a container on a cloud platform. For example, the city of Tampere uses Oskari as a container in Amazon's AWS service. The topic was discussed at the meeting of Oskari JDF in June and in this article we will cover the topic at a general level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some organizations have begun to use Oskari in a container on a cloud platform. For example, the city of Tampere runs Oskari using container technology in Amazon's AWS service. The topic was discussed at the meeting of Oskari JDF in June and in this article we will cover the topic at a general level.
```

The most well-known cloud services at the moment are probably Amazon's AWS and Microsoft's Azure. They host services set up by their customers and offer various additional services related to the hosting. Often the customer buys a dedicated server for their service, but it is also possible to put the service in a container that is set up on a shared server. Doing so the price of the service can be reduced.

Another option is to maintain the services in the organization’s own data center. If the organization has a data center ready and empty servers there, the services can of course be set up there. In an organization’s own data center services are (probably) physically close and setting up a new server involves manual labour with cables and computers, whereas with cloud platforms the same result can be achieved with a couple of clicks. This makes the cloud platforms a quick way to test the latest Oskari version, for example.

When a service is set up on a cloud platform, the service provider is largely responsible for its functionality. If the organization faces problems with its own data center with Linux OS or the hardware, the organization is on its own.

> Running software in a container refers to exporting software to a Docker image. Docker is a software platform that uses containers to package and run applications. The containers include in one file everything an application needs to run: code, libraries, system tools, required libraries etc. This makes the development, testing and deployment of a software easy. Containers also provide a standardized way to package and distribute software.

Reviewer: Some tuning, again not sure if it's better or worse, but the point being there are alternatives to Docker. And exporting software to Docker image sounded a bit weird. 

```suggestion
Container technology is a way to package and isolate applications with all their dependencies (like libraries and configuration files) into a single unit, called a container. For example Docker and Podman are software platforms that can be used to package and run applications as containers. This can help make the development, testing and deployment of a software easy. Containers also provide a standardized way to package and distribute software. Cloud providers offer easy ways to spin up software packaged in a container, but you can also run the same package on your computer as well so a container can be very portable.
```

> Cloud migrations may be driven by the need to separate public and government-use materials. On a cloud platform, public and intranet environments can be isolated from each other. 

Reviewer: Things can be isolated without cloud as well, but maybe it's a clearer separation?

```suggestion
Cloud migrations may be driven by the need to separate public and government-use materials. Having a public facing cloud service and an on-premise internal service creates a very clear separation between the two use cases.
```

## Why to run Oskari as a Docker image?

> The benefits of a container solution in Oskari are the same as in other software: previously changes made to the code had to be pushed to the server and tested there to find out if they worked. The possible corrections to the code had to be made locally, pushed to the server again and tested to see if they helped. Pushing the code to the server was also usually done using the command line instead of a graphical user interface.

Author: Mycket bättre. The workflow described here was brought up by certain developers in the JDF meeting. Will edit.

Also, what makes Docker images attractive to some is the way the setting up of the software is done: the software can be downloaded as a single file and even a complex setup process can be made with a single command. 

However, using Oskari in a container does not necessarily mean that the service should be moved to the cloud platform. The container solution can still be beneficial in other ways. Using a container can make the developers' work easier if, for example, the developing team has a shared container solution of a software that is used for local Oskari development and testing. Another standardized container can be used for production use and intended for a specific cloud platform, making the maintenance and setting up of map services easier.

![A decorative picture including Oskari and Docker logos on clouds. The original photograph by Vladimir Anikeev on Unsplash.](/resources/2025/oskari_cloud.png)
      

> ## Why to run Oskari on a cloud platform?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why run Oskari on a cloud platform?
```
